[MUSIC]
So this lesson,
this lecture we'll talk about,
a little more about operating systems and
what they do.
We'll talk about tasks and
process support really, about how
operating system support multiple
tasks executing at the same time and
how that's useful in more
complicated IoT devices.
So multiple tasks.
So this is actually going back to the last
lecture where we were talking about
this embedded system that
I had my students make.
Actually, IoT device,
it was a web controlled car.
And through the Internet, you could go
to a browser, open up a browser and
remotely control this car.
So you could view what its camera
was seeing on your web browser.
Also you could hit some buttons forward,
back, left,
right to control the motion of the car.
And so the car itself has its own
processor and a web server running on it.
A Wi-Fi web server running on it and
a camera and
it could manage all these tasks.
These tests could be managed remotely.
But the idea is that on that car,
on its microcontroller,
it had to do multiple things at once.
There are multiple tasks that it had to
handle in order to do this that it had to
handle at the same time.
So let's look at some of these.
One thing is sending video data.
So this car, if you were connected to it,
it was constantly sending video data
from its camera to your phone or
whatever your web browser was running on.
So, it had to do that.
Send video data all
the time in the background,
then servicing the motion buttons.
So in the interface,
you could go to your web browser.
Hit the forward button,
the car would move forward.
Hit the back button,
the car would move back, and so on.
So the car, its microcontroller
has to service those buttons.
So even while it's playing
the video at the same time,
if somebody presses forward,
it's got to respond.
Go forward, go backward and all that.
So, it has to do that.
Detecting obstacles.
So this thing has an auto brake feature,
so
it has to be constantly
detecting obstacles.
So if there's an obstacle in front of it,
it will brake.
Regardless of what the commands are,
that would get overwritten.
So, it's gotta be constantly detecting
obstacles while it's showing its video and
while it's responding
to the control buttons.
Also, auto brake.
So that's another thing has to happen
concurrently, you can be showing video.
Somebody can be pressing buttons,
you can be responding to them.
But if you detect an obstacle,
you gotta brake, automatically.
Concurrently, with the video and
with everything else.
So multiple tasks have to be
performed by this device.
And in a situation like this, it is
helpful to have an operating system to
handle the multiple tasks
to help you handle them.
So I just talking about how they can
happen together, you get detect and
auto brake cannot occur together.
So if you detect, then you auto brake.
They don't happen together, but
everything else can happen concurrently.
So in a situation like this,
you need to have multiple things
running at the same time.
Multiple tasks being
performed at the same time.
Now you could, as a programmer write
a relatively complicated program that does
all these things at once and checks.
While you're sending video data, it's also
checking to see if a button is pressed,
it's also checking for
collisions and so on.
But an operating system makes this easier,
because you can write each one of these
tasks as a separate task and then let
the operating system inter-mix them.
You can write one piece of code
that just sends video data.
Another piece that serves as motion
buttons, another that takes obstacles.
Another one that does auto brake and then
you can give them the operating system and
the operating system will make sure
that they all run at the same time.
You don't have to as a programmer,
you can write things separately.
You can write the sending video data code
separately from the servicing motion
button code and the operating
system can interweave them for
you and that relieves a lot of burden for
the programmer.
So the main job of an operating
system is to support a process or
a task abstraction.
I'm not gonna differentiate
them too well right now,
but let's just talk about processes.
A process is an instantiation of
a program, so a run of a program.
So if you got a program,
PowerPoint, let's say,
which is running on this
machine right here.
When you're running PowerPoint,
it has a process running.
And so say on my machine,
I open PowerPoint ten times,
then I've got ten different processes all
in different instantiations of PowerPoint.
So a process is like
a runtime instantiation,
execution of a program and you can
have many of them at the same time.
So the process has to have access to
the resources of the processor, the CPU.
Meaning, the microcontroller itself,
the memory.
A process needs to read from memory and
write to memory and so on.
Other resources, the timers, the ADD
converters, the network access, all that.
The processes all have to access that,
but they have to share that.
So there might be only one ADD
converter in this microcontroller and
there might be three processes that
need to use the ADD converter.
So the operating system, part of its job
is to manage all these resources to make
sure that everything gets used fairly,
one at a time.
So if all three processes
wanna use this ADD converter,
the operating system
essentially put them in a line.
Says, okay, you were first,
so you go first.
You're more high priority,
so you go second.
The operating system's job is
to manage all these resources.
The memory and the CPU and
I/O, ADD converters.
All the resources in the hardware, the
operating system takes care of that and
makes sure that the different processes
can use them in a fair order.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]